README.md, before:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dstrigel/ai-email-secretary-yesterbox/blob/main/AI_Email_Secretary_YesterBox_Edition.ipynb)

# AI Email Secretary (Yesterbox Workflow)

This project automates email triage using the Yesterbox method. It reads a daily CSV export of emails, extracts priorities, identifies urgent messages, and generates clear, actionable summaries including draft responses.

This version is designed as a professional prototype suitable for recruiters and technical reviewers.

## Features

- Detects the "yesterday" CSV based on filename  
- Cleans and structures email data  
- Identifies tasks, follow ups, requests, and deadlines  
- Flags urgent or high priority messages  
- Generates a concise Yesterbox style summary  
- Produces draft responses using email context  
- Automatically uses a sample file if no upload is provided  

## How to Run

### Option 1: Google Colab

1. Open the notebook in Google Colab.  
2. Upload your CSV or use the sample file included.  
3. Enter your OpenAI API key in the secrets cell.  
4. Run the notebook from top to bottom.

### Option 2: Run Locally

Install dependencies:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

Launch Jupyter:

    jupyter notebook

Open the notebook and run all cells.

## Repository Structure

    ai-email-secretary-yesterbox/
    ├── AI_Email_Secretary_v43_Portfolio.ipynb
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── sample_data/
    │   └── Alex_emails_march_04.csv
    └── screenshots/
        ├── summary.png
        └── output_block.png

## Configuration

The notebook requires an `OPENAI_API_KEY`.

Set it as an environment variable:

    export OPENAI_API_KEY="your_key_here"

Or use the Colab secrets UI inside the notebook.

## Why This Project Matters

This is a practical AI workflow demonstrating:

- Python workflow automation  
- CSV and structured data processing  
- LLM based reasoning and summarization  
- Prompt engineering  
- Real world productivity automation  

Recruiters and technical reviewers can run it quickly and see meaningful output.

## Requirements

Create a `requirements.txt` file with the following contents:

    pandas
    python-dotenv
    openai
    tiktoken
    jupyter



## **Project Structure**

## Screenshots

### Summary View
A preview of the final Yesterbox-style summary generated by the notebook:

![Summary Output](screenshots/summary_output.png)

### Data Preview
A sample of the cleaned email data after CSV ingestion and preprocessing:

![Data Preview](screenshots/data_preview.png)

### AI-drafted responses.png

![Data Preview](screenshots/AI-drafted_responses.png)

Commit message:

Revise README for project structure and recruiter notes
Updated project structure section and added recruiter notes.

README.md, after:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dstrigel/ai-email-secretary-yesterbox/blob/main/AI_Email_Secretary_YesterBox_Edition.ipynb)

# AI Email Secretary (Yesterbox Workflow)

This project automates email triage using the Yesterbox method. It reads a daily CSV export of emails, extracts priorities, identifies urgent messages, and generates clear, actionable summaries including draft responses.

This version is designed as a professional prototype suitable for recruiters and technical reviewers.

## Features

- Detects the "yesterday" CSV based on filename  
- Cleans and structures email data  
- Identifies tasks, follow ups, requests, and deadlines  
- Flags urgent or high priority messages  
- Generates a concise Yesterbox style summary  
- Produces draft responses using email context  
- Automatically uses a sample file if no upload is provided  

## How to Run

### Option 1: Google Colab

1. Open the notebook in Google Colab.  
2. Upload your CSV or use the sample file included.  
3. Enter your OpenAI API key in the secrets cell.  
4. Run the notebook from top to bottom.

### Option 2: Run Locally

Install dependencies:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

Launch Jupyter:

    jupyter notebook

Open the notebook and run all cells.

## Project Structure

The repository is organized as follows:

    ai-email-secretary-yesterbox/
    ├── AI_Email_Secretary_YesterBox_Edition.ipynb   # Main notebook
    ├── README.md                                    # Project overview and instructions
    ├── requirements.txt                             # Python dependencies
    ├── sample_data/                                 # Example email dataset
    │   └── Alex_emails_march_04.csv
    └── screenshots/                                 # Visual outputs for recruiters
        ├── summary_output.png
        └── data_preview.png

## Configuration

The notebook requires an `OPENAI_API_KEY`.

Set it as an environment variable:

    export OPENAI_API_KEY="your_key_here"

Or use the Colab secrets UI inside the notebook.

## Why This Project Matters

This is a practical AI workflow demonstrating:

- Python workflow automation  
- CSV and structured data processing  
- LLM based reasoning and summarization  
- Prompt engineering  
- Real world productivity automation  

Recruiters and technical reviewers can run it quickly and see meaningful output.

## Requirements

Create a `requirements.txt` file with the following contents:

    pandas
    python-dotenv
    openai
    tiktoken
    jupyter

## Recruiter Notes: Why This Project Matters

This project demonstrates the ability to design and implement a complete AI workflow from scratch. It highlights strengths that translate directly into real-world delivery roles:

- Turning an ambiguous goal into a working, end-to-end solution  
- Structuring a clear, modular Python workflow  
- Applying LLM prompt engineering for consistent, high-quality output  
- Cleaning and preparing real-world data (CSV ingestion, preprocessing, validation)  
- Using file-based logic and automation to reduce manual steps  
- Communicating the workflow clearly through clean documentation  
- Designing a practical AI assistant that improves actual daily productivity  

This is not a toy example. It’s a functional prototype that shows how to build usable AI tools that solve real problems. It reflects a blend of program management discipline, technical problem-solving, and hands-on AI development.

## Screenshots

### Summary View
A preview of the final Yesterbox-style summary generated by the notebook:

![Summary Output](screenshots/summary_output.png)

### Data Preview
A sample of the cleaned email data after CSV ingestion and preprocessing:

![Data Preview](screenshots/data_preview.png)

### AI-drafted responses.png

![Data Preview](screenshots/AI-drafted_responses.png)
